if I show them some really cool tactics
or strategies or some ads on what they
could be doing better or if I tried
targeting them for a webinar that breaks
down how to solve some problems and
provide value first that's much more
likely to do better
you're really known for your SEO tactics
SEO is search engine optimization for
anybody who doesn't know that acronym
what are entrepreneurs getting wrong
about SEO today
what they're getting wrong about SEO is
they believe that the key to Winning is
like hey you need more links you need
better on-page code or you need better
you know uh load time and don't get me
wrong those are actually factors and
they're important factors so I'm not
trying to downplay them and you need to
do them to rank higher but when you do a
search on Google have you ever thought
to yourself man this result should be
number one when I'm searching for cars
for let's say I'm trying to buy a new
car like yeah this result should be
number one because there's a million
backlinks and the number two result has
only 500 000 backlinks it doesn't cross
your mind no one cares which site has
more backlinks or less backlinks or
better on-page code or Worse on-page
code now don't get me wrong fast load
time or links all these things are
signals and you do need to do them and
they will help you with your SEO but the
key to really ranking high in the long
run is building amazing product or
service if someone goes to your website
no matter how fast your website loads or
how good your content is or you know any
of those factors if they don't find what
they're looking for they're going to go
back and go to the next site and if
everyone keeps going back and they don't
find what they're looking for on your
website even if you're ranking right now
your rankings in the long run will
decrease because it's user signals that
Google and Bing are picking up and it's
telling them hey other people prefer
other types of content
um so don't just focus on the tactics to
rank focus on keeping people on your
page and having a good content and good
product so you mentioned on-page SEO for
those non-marketers out there what's the
difference between on-page SEO and
off-page SEO yep on-page SEO is the
stuff you're doing to your own web pages
that you can control like speeding up
your website load time it shouldn't take
a website five seconds to load uh or
making sure they have keywords on your
page because if people type in dog food
but there's no mention of dog food on
your page you're not really going to
rank for dog food off page is signals
from other sites to yours so a great
example of this is it's like votes uh
person will win in a presidential
election based on how many votes they
typically get typically the more votes
you get the more likely you are to win
and the reason I say typically is it
depends on the country like in the
United States it's one person takes a
whole state right so there's a winner
you know you may may not have the most
votes but if you have the most votes in
the states that matters you can end up
winning but similar it goes with Google
if other websites are linking to your
website it's kind of like a vote
someone's saying I vote for Neil I vote
for John I vote for Cassidy or New York
Times or I vote for whatever site there
may be
another aspect of a vote is the person
voting for you so if Trump or Obama or
Biden say hey you should vote for Neil
whether you like those political figures
or not it's another politician saying
vote for Neil we endorse his political
Viewpoint and he knows what he's doing
that's more relevant than Joe the
plumber or Sally the plumber saying vote
for Neil when it comes to politics the
same thing goes with SEO and rankings if
I'm trying to rank for marketing related
terms it's more effective for another
marketing website to say hey Neil's
amazing or authoritative website like a
New York Times or CNN saying vote for
Neil versus a small mom-and-pop Plumbing
site linking to my website and say Neil
should rank higher
you mentioned keywords and I know when
it comes to SEO there's like lots to
talk about keywords and a lot of people
sort of overdo it with keywords so is
there a right way and a wrong way to
think about keywords when it comes to
your SEO
yes you don't need to shove in tons of
keywords in your content Google and Bing
understand what you're talking about
when you know from a topical standpoint
as long as you have some keywords in
there the key is you need to find the
right keywords to Target what are the
ones that drive Revenue what are the
ones that have a lot of search traffic
so what you want to do is you want to
use tools like uber suggest or answer
the public they both have tons of free
plans where you can type in any keyword
it'll tell you what's popular from a
search volume perspective what's not
competitive and what has a high cost per
click so a CPC stands for cost per click
the higher that number that means more
people are willing to spend money on
more on paid ads which means that
keyword tends to drive more Revenue
okay and Uber suggests we'll put the
link in the show notes that's uh you you
have uh you own that website right I do
thank you very much for that appreciate
it yeah of course so let's talk about if
you had a choice between organic SEO and
investing in Google ads as an
entrepreneur would you suggest that
people like where should we start first
should we try to optimize organically
first or should we just go straight to
paid ads you can try either or there is
no right answer for that it varies per
market and also varies on your skill set
if you think you're going to struggle
with SEO and you also don't have the
time to wait then paid ads is the best
approach if you think hey I don't or if
you're in a circumstance where you don't
have the money but you have the time SEO
is a great first approach or if you have
both and you're a venture funded startup
or you have capital from previous
Ventures or parents then you can do both
at the same time generally speaking of
marketing one social Channel or one paid
Channel or one SEO Channel
one's not really better than the other
it's you leverage all channels as long
as they can cause you to grow in a
profitable way awesome okay so let's
move on to email marketing
um everyone and their moms is trying to
grow their email list it's a really
popular thing email still has really
great Roi and I know you're full of
creative ideas when it comes to Growing
your email list so what are some of your
most Innovative creative tactics when it
comes to actually getting people to
subscribe and often to our email lists
my favorite one is give away a tool for
free so you can go to sites like
codecanyon.net find tools in any
industry mortgages cars Automotive
whatever it may be buy them for like 10
15 20 50 bucks and it's white label so
you can put it on your website and
pretty much say it's your own and as
people keep using the tool if they use
it once free if they use it twice have
them collect a collect an email address
have them register so that way you can
keep generating more emails and we do
that with answer the public and Uber
suggests and we generate
close to 300 000 email addresses per
month from that strategy new emails and
it's one of our favorite strategies that
not too many marketers use
wow so what is the name of that website
that gives the tools code Canyon
c-o-d-e-canyon.net
mmm I love that I've never heard of that
before really cool and let's stick on
lead generation and go a little bit
wider now what are some creative ways to
generate leads now I know I've heard you
on an interview in the past say that
you've even acquired companies to
generate leads for your agency so I'd
love to hear some of the creative ways
that you've generated leads in the past
yeah so great example of this uh
February we're in 2023 right now but
February 2022 we bought a tool called
answer the public for 8.6 million bucks
and answer the public was a tool similar
to Uber suggests which accounted for
roughly 40 of our Consulting Revenue at
NP digital at that time I think ants of
the public had around 60 percent of the
traffic ubersus did but they only
monetize it by charging for the tool we
thought hey there's more money in
services and marketing and we've seen
that ourselves if you look at any of the
marketing software companies none of
them generate anywhere near the amount
of money as a marketing services
companies like wpp or Omnicom so we're
there's like wait it's similar to our
ubersus tool they don't even monetize
this from a lead perspective giving away
free tools is a much better approach to
generating more and more leads and again
you can use that same strategy from code
Canyon find tools drives a lot of
traffic organically you don't have to do
tons of marketing because people love
free tools and you generate leads from
there another strategy that we love
doing is LinkedIn ads uh you can end up
going out there targeting the specific
company type and person and job title
and show them ads and only them ads and
get really qualified leads from that we
also love doing webinars going live
doing podcasts with other people
um Omni channel of course just being on
all the platforms helps generate a lot
of leads uh another unique strategy that
we do is we speak at conferences and
then instead of charging so I used to
charge money first being a conferences
now we're like I don't care for the
money but what we love doing is having
the conference organizer set us up with
the right meetings so great example of
this is I was in Brazil speaking at
event got set up with meetings with
Michelin the tire company
uh one of the biggest marketplaces is
like their version of eBay down there uh
got set up with one of their biggest
life insurance companies in Latin
America so what we'll do is again speak
at some of these events and then get set
up with meetings like Whirlpool right
Whirlpool is a global company and it's
been an amazing strategy to help us get
customers you can also them B to see
like if you're selling nail polish speak
at an event where you can meet potential
distributors or the event organizer can
set you up with the entry production to
let's say Walmart who can carry your
nail polish and put it in all the stores
yeah these are such great ideas and I
love that you pointed out LinkedIn ads
because too often I feel like when we're
thinking of social ads it's just meta
right it's Facebook and Instagram and
nobody's really thinking about LinkedIn
or the other platforms so I think it's
really cool that you mentioned that
there's some really good targeting on
LinkedIn so back to email
um I'd love to understand the importance
of cleaning up our email list and how we
can actually make sure that our emails
hit the inbox in the right folders
this is the simplest thing to think
about with emails is if someone keeps
sending you emails and you never open
them and a lot of other people get
similar emails and they don't open them
from the same people even if you don't
mark them as spam Google and Outlook and
all these email providers will start
putting them in the other inbox or spam
box and less and less people see them so
what you want to do is scrub your list a
lot of email Solutions have this option
like for example I use convertkit
convertkit has cold subscribers and they
label them as cold because they mean
when you send them emails they don't
open and they don't click so what we do
is we look at our cold subscribers on a
monthly basis and we delete them that
simple so we always send emails to the
people who are engaging and that ensures
that our emails stay in the Inbox and
have much better deliverability
um I know a lot of people are doing this
thing where they're scrubbing emails or
scraping emails off LinkedIn and in
other ways where people are not actually
opting in what's like bad about that
strategy or what would you say about
that strategy
you want you can do it but you're going
to run into a lot of privacy and legal
issues so I would definitely recommend
avoiding it even if it was legal I would
still avoid it because they're not
opting and then they probably don't care
for what you have to offer
instead you want to engage with them in
a way where they're interested about
your products or services and they're
much more likely to convert so for
example I we sell into all CMOS and VPS
of marketing for me to just go and just
email all of them people are going to
get irritated and hate me but on the
flip side
if I show them some really cool tactics
or strategies or some ads on what they
could be doing better or if I tried
targeting them for a webinar that breaks
down how to solve some problems and
provide value first that's much more
likely to do better than if I just go
and start spamming people and say hey
pay me money for marketing Services yeah
it's totally a turn off can hurt your
brand reputation I agree so let's say we
do it the right way we have a legit
email list people have opted in we're
scrubbing our lists and our emails are
hitting the inbox how can we actually
get people to open our emails what are
your suggestions
casual subject lines is one of the
biggest thing when a friend emails you
it's not all capitalized and proper it
just could be as simple as something
like hey what's up or Neil you gotta
check this out and all lower case and
basic things like that what we found
really help boosting uh open rates in
addition to that make sure your emails
provide value and you're not selling all
the time it's like 90 plus percent of
the time we like providing value you can
go down to 80 time providing value 20
selling that also helps with open rates
the other thing that we like doing is
making sure you're scrubbing your list
which we already talked about that helps
with opens and deliverability and lastly
make sure every time you email people
I want you to respond to them when they
ask you a question so a lot of times
when you send emails you're going to get
responses back or replies back with
questions and you can encourage more of
that by just putting a question in your
email and people be like yes or no it
adds you to their address book A lot of
times depending on the email provider
but also causes people to engage with
you and build that relationship so
they're much more likely to remember
your name the company name open up the
emails and buy from you wow these are
really good tips like I'm just thinking
about our own email marketing campaigns
and I'm like wow we're not doing enough
you know educational content in the
emails and we have so much educational
content that we could just repurpose for
emails but we've just been selling so
that's really eye-opening and I think
the Casual subject lines make sense
because no matter what marketing
platform you're on pattern disruption
always works right so you're just
breaking up the pattern of things always
looking the same everybody has an emoji
in their subject line so try it without
an emoji try it I'll lower case like you
said
that's right and as long as you rotate
things up it really does break things up
and yeah if you even if you have a
marketing tactic that works really well
if you keep doing it over and over again
and your competition all starts doing it
people tend to uh kind of drown it out
over time yeah sensory adaptation
totally
um so one last question about email
marketing and then I would love to move
on to Trends before we close out the
interview so let's talk about what good
looks like for an email marketing
campaign what are the metrics that we
should be looking at and are there any
sort of metrics or benchmarks we should
be trying to hit in terms of open rates
and things like that you want to shoot
for 30 plus percent open rates and you
want to shoot for click rates that are
at least in the one two percentile if
you can do that you're doing really well
and you're doing a great job
do you suggest that we have just like
one main link or uh is it okay to have
multiple links in our emails any advice
around that
either strategy works you don't want to
have like 10 links in an email it starts
getting overboard but one two or three
links isn't too bad and sometimes you
should be sending emails with no links
um
emails with video
shirt and things like that would you
suggest that that's an effective tactic
we found that text-based emails work the
best and they have better deliverability
than when you start adding in rich media
from our tests um
love it okay so moving on to marketing
Trends what would you say in in the
general marketing space we don't have to
stick to any particular Channel what are
the biggest trends that you see this
year in marketing
the biggest Trend that we're seeing this
year right now in marketing is
podcasting so people look at podcasting
we surveyed over 8 000 companies
and we found that the two big trends
were podcasting and Ai and here's what I
mean by that when we look at the total
number of blogs out there it's over a
billion when you look at the total
number of podcasts out there it's less
than 10 million it's a wide open ocean
there's not tons of competition and
companies are either A's trying to
create podcasts and B they're starting
to advertise on podcasts and what's
funny is we're seeing them advertise on
podcasts to promote their own podcast to
get more uh listenership and then people
are starting to repurpose that content
and use it all over the place because
you can use a podcast on to turn into
text-based content you can use it to
turn it into uh social media Clips
whether it's shorts or long form video
and what's really cool is when you do
podcasts a lot of times people are doing
them with other people like you and I
are and we're both going to push this on
all our social profiles and we're both
going to get played from this so it's
actually a really amazing win-win
strategy for both of us right so
companies are really pushing hard on
podcasting and they're pushing really
hard on AI what can they automate and
most people look at AI like oh I can use
open AI to help write content and I can
use them to figure out how to create
images
but there's much more to AI from when we
interviewed companies a big portion of
what they're looking to use AI from in a
marketing standpoint is analytics how
can you have ai analyze your analytics
on a daily basis and tell you where the
wastage is within your marketing
campaigns and where you can cut costs
and reallocate money because if you look
at the biggest expense in marketing it's
not Services it's not writing a piece of
content it's actually spending money on
paid advertising look at the revenue
that Google is generating and Facebook
is generating I think Google still is
like a trillion dollar company or
somewhere around there depending on the
month you're in and Facebook's still a
massive company
we spend so much money on ad dollars
imagine if analytics were analyzed by Ai
and it told us quicker when to cut our
losses
yeah AI is something that I want to
spend so much time trying to figure out
how I can optimize my business
especially as a marketer I feel like
there's just so much information out
there things that we can experiment with
there's so much to learn right now and
it sort of happened out of nowhere and
now as entrepreneurs we've got to
dedicate time to actually learn and
experiment and figure out how we can
leverage it for ourselves and one of my
favorite
um somebody I don't remember who told me
this but they they say AI is sort of
like a really good intern right so how
can you leverage Ai and use it like it's
a really good intern to help you just
level up everything that you do and if I
just told you I had 60 employees now my
60 employees all have a really good
intern that they can use to level up
their work yes and they could be more
efficient which helps you increase your
margins which helps you give that cost
savings to the customer or give them
better results and spend more time on
each campaign so that way they're
happier AI is a friend yeah
yeah
um okay so let's talk about another
Trend Hot Topic and that's IG
verification paid verification Twitter
paid verification what are your thoughts
around that I was reading an article
something like 40 something million
people in the first 24 hours got the
blue check mark which was 600 and
something million I think 660. it was
somewhere around there it was around 600
million dollars in Revenue that's
massive
I think the problem is what's going to
happen is everyone's going to start
getting these check marks and they're
not going to mean much anymore they're
going to have to have different colors
or variations for it kind of like how
Twitter has like a government official
version so then that way uh they have
some sort of meaning at least for some
of the check marks
yeah totally but I'm happy because I I
personally am having trouble getting
verified and I have three bot accounts
that are like selling fake crypto to my
fans and I'm like
really happy about IG verification even
though I don't have the capability yet
um okay so we always close out the
interview with two questions that I ask
all my guests the first one is what is
one actionable thing Are Young and
profiters can do today to become more
profitable tomorrow the one thing you
can do every single day is I would first
start off right now doesn't matter if
it's the start of your middle year end
of year breakdown what your goals are
for the year what you need to do to
achieve them break down those tasks into
a monthly basis then then take those
tests and break them out into a weekly
basis then break them down to daily and
then break those tasks down into what
you need to do each day within the hour
to achieve them and don't go to sleep
until you hit those tasks and complete
all of them do that every single day and
what you'll notice is maybe the next day
you don't make money or the next week or
next month but if you fast forward a
year you'll notice a huge difference in
your business growth or your income as
long as you're not going to sleep
without completing those tasks
I think that's a really good piece of
advice because a lot of people they're
all talk and they're no action and so
this ensures that they're taking daily
action and being consistent and I agree
that's that's the recipe for long-term
success what would you say your secret
to profiting in life is and this can go
beyond just business and Financial
so I try to be content in life I I don't
think
a person like when you're really happy
it's a state and then you go back down
to reality I try not to be where I have
crazy Ops or crazy downs and I always
realize when things are going really
well keep in mind someone else has it
better than you and when things are
going really bad people have it much
worse than you there's people in this
world with out of home without clothing
without food and clean drinking water
like a lot of us are so blessed when we
just really think about it from the
grand scheme of things and I try to stay
really content and level-headed because
then it allows me to think logically and
appreciate what I have
I think that's really great advice for
entrepreneurs because as an entrepreneur
life is a roller coaster and a lot of my
listeners are entrepreneurs so you got
to keep an even kill in the highs and
lows like Neil says Neil where can our
listeners learn more about you and
everything that you do neilpatel.com is
where I blog NP digital is my Ad Agency
awesome thank you so much for all of
your wisdom today it was an absolute
pleasure thanks for having me